{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset255 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f3\fnil Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont2\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sb100\sa100\qc\f0\fs22\lang1033 Keys & Combinations\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\qj\f1\lang2057 SumatraPDF is purposed as a lightweight Portable Document (PDF) Reader and is designed to maximise viewing area with a visually uncluttered user interface. As such it relies heavily on key combinations for its control and navigation rather than multiple menu ribbons and icons. For further information see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/wiki/Toolbar-design }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/wiki/Toolbar-design\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  \par
\f0\lang1033 In the following notes [\i Abreviation\i0 ] represents a single key i.e. \b [Esc]\b0  = Escape Key & \b [Ctrl]\b0  = the Control key. Where \b two or more\b0  keys need to be activated at the same time they are shown as \b [\i any\i0 ]\b0  + \b [\i any\i0 ]\b0  + \b [\i any\i0 ] \b0 etc. \par
\f1\lang2057 SumatraPDF prides itself on good multi-lingual support and many combinations in one language are different due to  translation into others. Users may also be surprised to find some keys do NOT result in an expected reaction, as an example the \b [F1]\b0  key does NOT invoke a help function, see more on this later.\par

\pard\sb100\sa100 The key combinations herein are based on default \b English\b0  thus \b [Alt] + [H] + [W] \b0 is go to \ul\b H\ulnone\b0 elp > Visit \ul\b W\ulnone\b0 ebsite alors qu'en langue \b fran\'e7aise\b0 , c'es \b [Alt] +[d] + [W] \b0 ce qui est \'e9quivalent \'e0  ai\ul\b d\ulnone\b0 er > \'e0 visiter le site \ul\b W\ulnone\b0 eb\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\qj If you wish to translate these notes you may like to know I used WordPad 11pt Arial plus some Cambria Math.\par
\b\f0\lang1033 [\i\f2\u8862?\i0\f1\lang2057 ] \b0 represents the \f0\lang1033 Windows \b logo key\b0 , if \f1\lang2057 not available it can be emulated by using both \b [Ctrl]\b0  + \b [Esc]\b0\f0\lang1033  keys, \b on its own [\i\f2\u8862?\i0\f0\lang1033 ]\b0  opens the Start Menu ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Start_menu }}{\fldrslt{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Start_menu\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
Note \b\f1\lang2057 [Ctrl]\b0  + \b [Esc]\f0\lang1033  \b0 can NOT normally be combined with other keys in the same way that \b [\i\f2\u8862?\i0\f1\lang2057 ]\b0  can.  Any use of \b\f0\lang1033 [\i\f2\u8862?\i0\f1\lang2057 ] \b0 is driven by the windows system, SumatraPDF should not alter any of those behaviours.\b\par
[\f2\u8803?\f1\lang2057 ]\b0  represents the application or (context) \b menu key\b0  ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menu_key }}{\fldrslt{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menu_key\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 ), do not  confuse it with \b\f2\u8942?\b0\f3\lang2057  \f1 or \b\f2\u8801?\f3\lang2057  \b0\f1 which represent the \b three bar options icon \b0 (often called kebab / hamburger button).\par
In the "FixedPageUI", when  \b [\f2\u8803?\f1\lang2057 ]\b0  is pressed it will simply (same as a right-click off-canvas) offer "Select All" and a copy option. For more information on how right-click works in SumatraPDF see Right-Click.PDF\par

\pard\sb100\sa100 These notes do NOT cover every key combination within SumatraPDF since many are specific to Windows. \par

\pard\sb100\sa100\qj Users often request this icon or that icon to avoid keyboard input (see toolbar link above), equally many users request alternate key mappings to suit their own needs. For an example discussion on [Alt] + [Space] see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/issues/957 }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/issues/957\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  The general issue is that many key combinations need to be reserved for system use e.g.  \b [Ctrl]\b0  + \b [a]\b0   or  \b [\f2\u8803?\f1\lang2057 ]\b0  then \b [A]  \b0 = Windows Select \ul\b A\ulnone\b0 ll  etc., in many applications keys are NOT case sensitive and translators of SumatraPDF should avoid introducing ambiguity.\par
The aim of this document is NOT to duplicate a list of Windows functions, for more information on those see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_key }}{\fldrslt{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_key\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  & as linked by SumatraPeter in https:://github.com/sumatrareader/ sumatrapdf/issue/957 see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/12445/windows-keyboard-shortcuts }}{\fldrslt{https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/12445/windows-keyboard-shortcuts\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  \par

\pard\sb100\sa100 NOR do these notes simply duplicate those in the manual see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.sumatrapdfreader.org/manual.html }}{\fldrslt{https://www.sumatrapdfreader.org/manual.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  and the wiki {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/wiki/Keyboard-Shortcuts }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/wiki/Keyboard-Shortcuts\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
This IS a collection of additional information, usage and tips (/tricks) related to using the keyboard interface.\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\qj\b [Alt]\b0  is same as \b [F10] \b0 An issue that may occur whilst using the pull down menus is that an underline \b [\ul letter\ulnone ]\b0  may not always be given or may not work as expected, for example in current version 3.1.2 the option to Change Language is \b [Alt]\b0  + \b [S]\b0  + \b [C] , \b0 although the C is not underlined it is applied, but in my fathers tongue that default option begins with the same letter as another option so he would have used \b [Alt]\b0  + \b [S]\b0  + \b [Enter]\b0  .\par
\b [Ctrl] \b0 is a frequently used key modifier see the links above for many two or three key or mouse combinations. \b [Ctrl]\b0  does nothing on its own, however there is at least one case where it differs in action see \b [F5] \b0 below\par
\b [Esc]\b0  will exit one menu step or exit full screen / presentation mode. If the advanced SumatraPDF-settings.txt file value of EscToExit = true   it can also be used to rapidly exit the SumatraPDF app same as \b [CTRL] \b0 + \b [Q]\b0  , however I would NOT recommend this setting for less experienced / tablet users since it may cause confusion if tabs and "RememberOpenedFiles" are active {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/issues/1033 }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf/issues/1033\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\ul\b Function Keys\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\sb100\sl240\slmult1\qj As stated above SumatraPDF does not use \b [F1]\b0  to invoke help offline, in the menu there is a seperate \b [Alt]\b0  + \b [\ul H\ulnone ] H\b0 elp entry that has 4 options (the space is there so you can add your own language specific combination)\par

\pard\sb100\sl240\slmult1\b [Alt]\b0  + \b [\ul H\ulnone ]\b0  + \b [\ul A\ulnone ]\b0  \tab\tab\tab\ul\b A\ulnone\b0 bout\par
\b [Alt]\b0  + \b [\ul H\ulnone ]\b0  + \b [\ul M\ulnone ]\b0  \tab\tab\tab\ul\b M\ulnone\b0 anual\par
\b [Alt]\b0  + \b [\ul H\ulnone ]\b0  + \b [\ul U\ulnone ]\b0\tab\tab\tab Check for \ul\b U\ulnone\b0 pdates\par
\b [Alt]\b0  + \b [\ul H\ulnone ]\b0  + \b [\ul W\ulnone ]\b0  \tab\tab\tab Visit \ul\b W\ulnone\b0 ebsite\par
\par

\pard\sb100\sl240\slmult1\qj\b [F2]\b0  same as many windows apps allows the current file to be renamed, it is worth noting the initial location offered is by default the same folder as the source file. When a file is opened say from the web, the folder for rename will be the temporary file cache e.g. C:\\Users\\yourname\\AppData\\Local\\Microsoft\\Windows\\INetCache\\IE\\ABC12XYZ. There was an issue where the default redirection did not happen on a PC and the user wanted that on other PCs, for a solution see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://forum.sumatrapdfreader.org/t/remember-last-folder/1365 }}{\fldrslt{https://forum.sumatrapdfreader.org/t/remember-last-folder/1365\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\qj\b [F3]\b0  many browser users may be surprised to discover this does not initially open / jump to the "Find" input field, that function is \b [ / ]\b0  (MuPDF) or \b [Ctrl]\b0  + \b [F] \b0 (Windows)\b  \b0 only available in the "FixedPageUI" interface (not e-pub etc.) then  \b [F3]\b0  and \b [Shift]\b0  + \b [F3]\b0  behave as expected \par

\pard\sb100\sa100\i [F4] also [F1] and [F7]\i0  are normally inactive\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\qj\b [F5]\b0  or \b [Ctrl]\b0  + \b [L]\b0  is a toggle for presentation mode, it is more restrictive than \b [F11]\b0  q.v. and in page mode (without a scrollbar) well suited to kiosk mode usage. If you expected windows refresh that's covered by \b [r]\b0  (Reload file). NOTE whilst in presentation mode Bookmarks & Favorites can also be visible to navigate within and between files. Due to differing mouse controls \b [Ctrl]\b0  + may be required to enable some right-click actions.\par
\b [F6]\b0  switch bookmarks frame focus (jump left and right) between the bookmarks and main panes, clearly only works if [F12] is actived when it is most likely to be used to refocus back to the document. When favorites (which does not need a switch key) is active, a [F6] to bookmarks can be followed by \b [Tab]\b0  to get to Favorites.\tab\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\b [F8]\b0  and \b [F9]\b0  are toggle toolbar and menu, and only usable in the "FixedPageUI" interface (not e-pub etc.) neither are available whilst in Presentation \b [F5]\b0  or Fullscreen \b [F11]\b0  mode.\par
\b [F10] \b0 same as \b [Alt]\b0  above\par
\b [F11]\b0   or  \b [Ctrl]\b0  + \b [Shift]\b0  + \b [L]\b0  is a toggle for fullscreen mode generally similar to \b [F5]\b0  but mouse actions are more conventional e.g. do not need to use \b [Ctrl]\b0  + to access context menus.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b [F12]\b0  toggle bookmarks\par
\lang9\par
}
 